♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we are going to start
learning about using our AJAX endpoint,
and we're going to start with this little
search here. So if I were to search for
'coffee,' what should happen is right
below, it should automatically
autocomplete a list of stores that either
have 'coffee' in the name or 'coffee' in
the description. So there's a couple new
concepts that we're going to learn about
MongoDB here other than the res.json
in Express to actually send stuff
back as JSON rather than actually dealing
with it in HTML. So first thing we need to
do is learn about this concept called
indexes, and I think the docs do a great
job talking about what indexes are.
So I'm going to read through and we'll
start a ref on it until we understand.
So indexes support the efficient execution
of queries in MongoDB.
So what does that mean? Indexes make
things fast. Without indexes,
MongoDB must perform my collection scan,
i.e.scan over every document in the
collection to select those documents that
match the query statement.
So what does that mean? Let's say I have
10,000 stores, and I'm going to search for
coffee. What MongoDB will do, if you don't
have an index, is it's actually going to
just go over every single document in your
collection and say,
"Do you have coffee in the title? Do you
have coffee in the title?
Do you have coffee in the title?" And what
indexing does is, as a developer,
you say, "Okay, I understand that we're
going to be doing a lot of queries with
this field title and a lot of queries with
the field description." So we tell MongoDB
ahead of time, "Hey, it would be great if
you, like, did a little bit of homework
with these fields, if you, like, maybe
read over them really quickly so you sort
of know what's in them, so that when I do
a query against you,
like .find, then you're already going to
know what is in those and you can do a
much faster, much more efficient execution
of the query." So that's really great,
because I use mLab to do all of my
hosting, and every week, they send me an
email, and they say like, "Hey, you are
performing this specific query 10,000
times this week, and you're not indexing
it." Like, let's say I was searching the
database for videos that match a specific
course of mine, and it was saying,
"Hey, like, you're always looking up
videos that have a code called React,
and you're not indexing it." So the query
is taking like 2, 3 hundred milliseconds
to actually execute. Whereas if you told
us to index it, we could sort of, like,
get the host ready. We could get stuff
ready so that when someone does query us,
we can do it in a number of milliseconds
rather than 2, 300 milliseconds." So,
as a developer, if you know
that you're going to be hitting a field
if you're going to be searching by a
field very often, it is good to index it,
and we're going to go over an example how
to index text right now,
then we're also going to over an example
how do we index our latitude and
longitude. So let's go over to our
stores.js - or store.js - model,
and all of your indexing will always
happen in your schema. So that's what
we're going to do. We're going to go down
right below our schema here,
and this is where we define our index. One
thing before we actually get into defining
our indexes, if we go back to our MongoDB
compass here, then we go to stores,
you're going to see that there is an
indexes that we can go to here.
And by default, your ID will always be
indexed, because that's like the fastest
way to look something up. However, if you
go to users, you'll see that we're
indexing ID, that's by default, and we're
indexing email, and that's because our
users, we have that plug-in, and that
plug-in has likely introduced an index
for us, because that plug-in always looks
up people by their email address, as well.
So those are two indexes. We're going to
learn about a couple more indexes before
the end of this course. So we only have
our stores. We only have ID. But if we go
here and we take our schema, and we add an
index of, and we tell it here which fields
would we like it to index. So it's an
object, and we tell it. We want the name
field to be indexed, because the name of
the store is important to be searched by,
and we want the description of the store
to be able to search by.
So we take our name, and we're going to
index it as text. I'll talk about that in
a second, and same with our description,
we're also going to index
that as text. Another interesting thing
about indexes is you tell MongoDB what you
would like it to be indexed as. In our
case, we're indexing as text, because
that's going to make it possible to search
within that very efficiently and do some
stuff like case sensitivity and whatnot.
So we have our index for name and
description. And if you go back to your
MongoDB compass and click on refresh or
apply, I think apply will do it, and you
go to indexes, you should
now see you have name_text,
description_text
So this is what's called
the compound index, where it has two
fields being indexed as one, and the type
of it is text. And it tells us the size,
because it does take a little bit of space
up in your database or on your hard drive,
because it does need to save some metadata
about it, and that will tell us that it's
a compound index. If it doesn't show up, I
have had to quit this application and
start it again to make it show up. So
don't worry too much if it doesn't show up
immediately. It will be working in just a
second. And, again, if you have a larger
database, sometimes it will take a little
bit of time to actually index the entire
database as well. In our case, we just
have a dozen or so stores.
So now that we have that indexed as text,
it's going to allow us to search via both
of these fields in one shot. So let's go
and create our new route,
and this is going to be our API endpoint.
So let's go into index.js,
and go all the way to the bottom here, and
then make a new section for dealing with
the APIs. These are where our API
endpoints are going to be, so say
router.get, and I like to prefix my
endpoints with /API/search. Some people
also like to version their APIs so you
have, like, version 1, and that's really
nice, because if you do make changes
to your API and people are relying on it,
you can just make a version 2 of that.
Well, that one will stick around. But, in
our case, I'm just going to keep it
simple. We have /API/search. And when that
runs, we are going to catch errors and
going to make a new method on our store
controller called 'search stores.' Okay.
Then we will go to our store controller
and make that search stores method
for the bottom here. Let's say
exports.searchstores is equal to
and a sync request a response. And
from that, let's just say response.json.
We'll give a 'It worked.' Now, there we
go. Nice little object that we're sending
back, a sync.. Here we go. So
/API/search. Hit enter. There we go. It
worked. By the way, if you're wondering
why mine looks like this, I'm using a
plug-in called JSON viewer, and that will
do is it will give you some nice-looking
layout if you ever hit a JSON file.
Otherwise, the RAW will just look like
this for you. But you probably figured
that out by now. So now, via this,
we're going to take in a parameter
called a query or Q. So we will
go on the end of this,
and we'll say Q equals beer. And what this
will do is we will take all of the query
parameters, in our case, just one called
Q, and we're going to pass it along where
it will take that beer and then search our
database for anything that includes the
word "beer." But for now, let's just
double check that we actually are getting
our data. And the way that you can access
these parameters right here,
these aren't really params. They are
queries. So we go to the request,
and we just send the query back, and when
you refresh, [inaudible] request.
There we go. You see Q is equal to beer,
but if I were to add multiple query params
onto the URL, Name equals Wes
and Cool equals true,
hit enter. You see that all of these
queries are being passed along via the
URL. So request.query dot whatever it is
that you're expecting. In our case, we're
looking for Q. So let's go ahead and find
our stores. So we'll say cont stores
equals store.find, and let's just leave it
at that right now, and we'll take our
stores while we have to await them,
because it's asynchronous, and we'll just
say res.jsonstores. Then when I refresh
here, I should just get a list of all of
my stores being sent along.
Good So that's every single store. We
don't necessarily need that just yet,
but we can see that our actual API
endpoint is working just fine.
But what we really want to work on here is
that this find needs to take an argument
which will tell us the search for the name
property, right here,
and the description property or whatever
the person passed along with Q.
Okay. So we open up a object here. We put
it on its own line. Normally,
it'd say something like the name includes
the query but then also or the description
includes the query. And what happens when
you get into, like, really complex
queries? Do you have to take them out?
No, because what we did here is
we have indexed those two fields
into what's called a compound
index, and we've indexed them as text.
So what we can do is we can use a MongoDB
text operator, which will perform a text
search on any fields that are indexed with
a text index. So what we did by indexing
them as text is we essentially said,
"These fields are indexed as text,
and we can perform a search on anything
that is text." So we'll go back here,
and we'll say the dollar text - that's the
operator - and we're going to open that
up, and there's a couple options, and the
first obvious one we need is this search.
We want that to be the request.query.q,
and there's a couple other
operators that we have here with our
.text. So we can say language,
and this will determine what
language it is. Case sensitive.
By default, it's case insensitive, meaning
that if you have capital B beer or lower
case b beer, it will do both of them, and
then diet tread, diarrhea,
diaractic sensitive. Whatever that word
is, I had to Google it,
but what it means is that if you have like
an e accent aigu in one of your
words, then it will just treat it as a
regular e. So somebody is searching for
resume, and you search for resume, then it
will ignore the accents and have
everything on that letter. So we don't
need to pass any of these case sensitive
or diaractic sensitive as they are on by
default. And I can't think of a whole lot
of situations where you would want to turn
them off. So we have that search coming
in so far. Give that a save. Now if we go
back here and refresh this URL here,
you'll see that we only now get one, two,
three things back, because I searched for
beer. If I search for bread, we get
nothing, because there's no stores with
that in there. Let's take a look at some
of our other stores... sour. Let's try
that. One store, because one store has
sour. What about coffee?
Now, the one thing that's wrong
with this search for coffee
is that it doesn't put them
in any specific order.
It actually just brings them back in the
order in which they were added to the
database and the date created. So what we
need to do is now sort these based on some
sort of score or invisible field that will
allow us to see like if this one says
coffee a couple times, and the other one
at the bottom only says coffee once,
then you want to score the one with the
highest score first, and obviously the one
with the lowest score last. That's where
we get, start getting into what's called
metadata in MongoDB. And if we look at
this metaoperator in MongoDB,
what this does is will allow us to project
in, and MongoDB's a fancy word for add
a field. It will allow us to add a
field using some of this hidden data
that MongoDB has about our search results,
and we can add that to the actual end
result. So we take our find here. Our find
has one argument which is a query.
Good. Now we can have a second argument
here, which is can also be an object,
and we are going to tell it to project.
Again, project means add a field.
We're going to tell it to project a score
field, and the score is going to be made
up of the metadata, which is something
called a text score. And the text score is
the only metadata that is currently in
MongoDB. I'm not sure if they have plans
for adding more, but in this case, when we
search for beer, it's going to give it a
score of how close to that did we actually
get. So we just projected a score on
there. Give it a save, and refresh this.
Now you will see, let's take a look,
score. There it goes, 0.5454444. This one,
0.8. This one, 1.2. You can see that it's
actually climbing, and we want the other
way around, Mulberry Coffee.
It's in the name. It's in the description.
So how do we then order that in the
opposite order? Well, we can take this
semicolon off, chain on a .sort,
and we want to sort it based on our new
metaproperty, which is score,
and the value of that is going to be meta
and text score once more.
And that should take our meta value, which
is score, and sort it by that actual
value. We refresh this now, and you see
that our top-scoring one,
1.29 is at the top, and the lowest scoring
one, 0.54 is at the very bottom.
So if this looks a little bit weird to
you, it's because there's a lot of nested
objects in here. What I do like to do
sometimes is to find on one line,
and then a sort on the next. You can write
little comments. First find stores that
match, then sort them. And then finally we
also want to only return five, because if
we had 10,000, we only want to hit the top
5. So we can limit to only 5 results.
Let's say .limit5. You see how you can
like sort of chain, find,
sort, and limit all along in one query?
Very nice that way. So that's the first
half of actually creating our API. On the
next video, what we're going to do is
we're going to go on our frontend and use
that to actually pull it in when somebody
searches in that search bar.
♪ [music] ♪